docs(notifications): split to multiple docs and add more info (#26709)
backstage/backstage: docs/notifications/processors.md

---
id: processors
title: Processors
description: How to setup notification processors
---

> The notifications can be extended with `NotificationProcessor`. These processors allow to decorate notifications before they are sent or/and send the notifications to external services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
Notifications can be extended with `NotificationProcessor`. These processors allow you to decorate notifications before they are sent and/or send the notifications to external services.
```

> Depending on the needs, a processor can modify the content of a notification or route it to different systems like email, Slack, or other services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on your needs, a processor can modify the content of a notification or route it to different systems like email, Slack, or other services.
```

Start off by creating a notification processor:

```ts
import { Notification } from '@backstage/plugin-notifications-common';
import { NotificationProcessor } from '@backstage/plugin-notifications-node';

class MyNotificationProcessor implements NotificationProcessor {
  // preProcess is called before the notification is saved to database.
  // This is a good place to modify the notification before it is saved and sent to the user.
  async preProcess(notification: Notification): Promise<Notification> {
    if (notification.origin === 'plugin-my-plugin') {
      notification.payload.icon = 'my-icon';
    }
    return notification;
  }

  // postProcess is called after the notification is saved to database and the signal is emitted.
  // This is a good place to send the notification to external services.
  async postProcess(notification: Notification): Promise<void> {
    nodemailer.sendEmail({
      from: 'backstage',
      to: 'user',
      subject: notification.payload.title,
      text: notification.payload.description,
    });
  }
}
```

> Both of the processing functions are optional, and you can implement only one of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both of the processing functions are optional, and you can just implement one of them.
```

Add the notification processor to the notification system by:

```ts
import { notificationsProcessingExtensionPoint } from '@backstage/plugin-notifications-node';
import { Notification } from '@backstage/plugin-notifications-common';

export const myPlugin = createBackendPlugin({
  pluginId: 'myPlugin',
  register(env) {
    env.registerInit({
      deps: {
        notifications: notificationsProcessingExtensionPoint,
        // ...
      },
      async init({ notifications }) {
        // ...
        notifications.addProcessor(new MyNotificationProcessor());
      },
    });
  },
});
```

## Built-in Processors

> Backstage comes with some built-in processors that can be used out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Backstage comes with some processors that can be used immediately.
```

### Email Processor

Email processor is used to send notifications to users using email. To install the email processor, add the `@backstage/plugin-notifications-backend-module-email` package to your backend.

```bash
yarn workspace backend add @backstage/plugin-notifications-backend-module-email
```

Add the email processor to your backend:

```ts
import { createBackend } from '@backstage/plugin-notifications-backend';
const backend = createBackend();
// ...
backend.add(import('@backstage/plugin-notifications-backend-module-email'));
```

To configure the email processor, you need to add the following configuration to your `app-config.yaml`:

```yaml
notifications:
  email:
    smtp:
      host: smtp.example.com
      port: 587
      secure: false
      username: ${SMTP_USERNAME}
      password: ${SMTP_PASSWORD}
```

Apart from STMP, the email processor also supports the following transmissions:

- SES

> - sendmail

Reviewer 2: Might need to add this to the `vocab` in `.github` folder
